The President: Hi, everybody.
In my State of the Union
Address, I talked about pizza.
More specifically, I
talked about a pizza chain
in Minneapolis - Punch Pizza -
whose owner, John Soranno,
made the business decision to
give his employees a raise
to ten bucks an hour.
A couple weeks ago, I got a
letter from a small business
owner who watched that night.
Yasmin Ibrahim is an immigrant
who owns her own restaurant -
Desi Shack - and plans to
open another this summer.
Here's what she wrote.
"I was moved by John
Soranno's story.
It got me thinking about my
... full-time employees and
their ability to survive on
$8 an hour in New York City."
So a few weeks ago, Yasmin put
in place a plan to lift wages
for her employees at both her
restaurants to at least $10
an hour by the end of this year.
But here's the thing - Yasmin
isn't just raising her
employees' wages because
it's the right thing to do.
She's doing it for the same
reason John Soranno did.
It makes good business sense.
Yasmin wrote, "It will allow us
to attract and retain better
talent - improving
customer experience,
reducing employee churn
and training costs.
We believe doing so makes good
business sense while at the same
time having a positive
impact on the community."
Yasmin's right.
That's why, two months ago,
I issued an Executive Order
requiring workers on new federal
contracts to be paid a fair wage
of at least ten dollars
and ten cents an hour.
But in order to make a
difference for every American,
Congress needs to do something.
And America knows it.
Right now, there's a bill that
would boost America's minimum
wage to ten dollars
and ten cents an hour.
That would lift wages for
nearly 28 million Americans
across the country.
28 million.
And we're not just talking about
young people on their first job.
The average minimum wage
worker is 35 years old.
They work hard, often in
physically demanding jobs.
And while not all of us always
see eye to eye politically,
one thing we overwhelmingly
agree on is that nobody who
works full-time should ever
have to live in poverty.
That's why nearly three in
four Americans support raising
the minimum wage.
The problem is, Republicans in
Congress don't support raising
the minimum wage.
Some even want to get
rid of it entirely.
In Oklahoma, for example, the
Republican governor just signed
a law prohibiting cities
from establishing their
own minimum wage.
That's why this fight
is so important.
That's why people like John
and Yasmin are giving their
workers a raise.
That's why several
states, counties,
and cities are going around
Congress to raise their
workers' wages.
That's why I'll
keep up this fight.
Because we know that our economy
works best when it works for
all of us - not just
a fortunate few.
We believe we do better when
everyone who works hard has
a chance to get ahead.
That's what opportunity
is all about.
And if you agree with us,
we could use your help.
Republicans have voted more than
50 times to undermine or repeal
health care for
millions of Americans.
They should vote at least once
to raise the minimum wage for
millions of working families.
If a Republican in
Congress represents you,
tell him or her it's time to
give the politics a rest for
a while and do something to
help working Americans.
It's time for "ten-ten."
It's time to give
America a raise.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.